.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Purpose of this pull request

<!--- Describe your changes in detail -->

This pull request (PR) ...

## Affected pages

<!-- REQUIRED List the pages/URLs on the [Adobe devsite](https://developer.adobe.com/. Not needed for large numbers of files. -->

-  ...

## Links to related PRs or Jira tickets

<!--  OPTIONAL - REMOVE THIS SECTION IF NOT USED. Add links to PRs/tickets that required documentation updates -->

-  ...

<!--
If you are fixing a GitHub issue, note it using GitHub keyword format (https://help.github.com/en/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords#closing-an-issue-in-a-different-repository) to close the issue when this pull request is merged. Example: `Fixes #1234`
`beta` is the default branch. Merged pull requests to `main` go live on the site automatically.
See Contribution guidelines (https://github.com/magento/devdocs/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.
-->

## Checklist:

<!--- Go over all the following points, and put an `x` in all the boxes that apply. -->

- [ ] I have signed the [Adobe Open Source CLA](https://opensource.adobe.com/cla.html).
- [ ] My changes follow the code style of this project.
- [ ] I have read the **CONTRIBUTING** document.
- [ ] All new and existing tests passed.

Commit message:

Updated core files for gatsby-theme-aio 4.6.2

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--- Provide a general summary of your changes in the Title above -->

## Description

<!--- Describe your changes in detail -->

## Related Issue

<!--- This project only accepts pull requests related to open issues -->
<!--- If suggesting a new feature or change, please discuss it in an issue first -->
<!--- If fixing a bug, there should be an issue describing it with steps to reproduce -->
<!--- Please link to the issue here: -->

## Motivation and Context

<!--- Why is this change required? What problem does it solve? -->

## How Has This Been Tested?

<!--- Please describe in detail how you tested your changes. -->
<!--- Include details of your testing environment, and the tests you ran to -->
<!--- see how your change affects other areas of the code, etc. -->

## Screenshots (if appropriate):

## Types of changes

<!--- What types of changes does your code introduce? Put an `x` in all the boxes that apply: -->

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to change)

## Checklist:

<!--- Go over all the following points, and put an `x` in all the boxes that apply. -->
<!--- If you're unsure about any of these, don't hesitate to ask. We're here to help! -->

- [ ] I have signed the [Adobe Open Source CLA](https://opensource.adobe.com/cla.html).
- [ ] My code follows the code style of this project.
- [ ] My change requires a change to the documentation.
- [ ] I have updated the documentation accordingly.
- [ ] I have read the **CONTRIBUTING** document.
- [ ] I have added tests to cover my changes.
- [ ] All new and existing tests passed.
